flexran blogpost entry (#68)
suse-edge/suse-edge.github.io: blog/2023-07-28-flexran.md

Tue Jun  6 10:49:20 2023:INFO:Configuration in VF mode
Tue Jun  6 10:49:21 2023:INFO: ROM version MM 99AD92
Tue Jun  6 10:49:21 2023:WARN:* Note: Not on DDR PRQ version  1302020 != 10092020
Tue Jun  6 10:49:21 2023:INFO:PF ACC100 configuration complete
Tue Jun  6 10:49:21 2023:INFO:ACC100 PF [0000:8a:00.0] configuration complete!
```

6. Check the new VFs created are available and ready to be used by the FlexRan library:

```
dpdk-devbind.py -s
...
Baseband devices using DPDK-compatible driver
=============================================
0000:8a:00.0 'Device 0d5c' drv=igb_uio unused=vfio-pci
0000:8b:00.0 'Device 0d5d' drv=vfio-pci unused=igb_uio

Other Baseband devices
======================
0000:8b:00.1 'Device 0d5d' unused=igb_uio,vfio-pci
...
```

### DPDK Configuration

The Data Plane Development Kit (DPDK) is a set of data plane libraries and network interface controller drivers for fast packet processing. It is designed to run on any processors. In our case, we will use the DPDK libraries to accelerate the performance of the FlexRan library.
Let's start to create some VFs to be available for the FlexRan workloads:

> 1. Create the VF PCI addresses in the node:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create the VFs
```

Author: I prefer give the context about pci addr

0000:19:00.0 'BCM57504 NetXtreme-E 10Gb/25Gb/40Gb/50Gb/100Gb/200Gb Ethernet 1751' if=em1 drv=bnxt_en unused=igb_uio,vfio-pci *Active*
0000:19:00.1 'BCM57504 NetXtreme-E 10Gb/25Gb/40Gb/50Gb/100Gb/200Gb Ethernet 1751' if=em2 drv=bnxt_en unused=igb_uio,vfio-pci
0000:19:00.2 'BCM57504 NetXtreme-E 10Gb/25Gb/40Gb/50Gb/100Gb/200Gb Ethernet 1751' if=em3 drv=bnxt_en unused=igb_uio,vfio-pci
0000:19:00.3 'BCM57504 NetXtreme-E 10Gb/25Gb/40Gb/50Gb/100Gb/200Gb Ethernet 1751' if=em4 drv=bnxt_en unused=igb_uio,vfio-pci
0000:51:00.0 'Ethernet Controller E810-C for QSFP 1592' if=eth13 drv=ice unused=igb_uio,vfio-pci
0000:51:00.1 'Ethernet Controller E810-C for QSFP 1592' if=rename8 drv=ice unused=igb_uio,vfio-pci

Baseband devices using DPDK-compatible driver
=============================================
0000:8a:00.0 'Device 0d5c' drv=igb_uio unused=vfio-pci

Other Baseband devices
======================
0000:8b:00.0 'Device 0d5d' unused=igb_uio,vfio-pci
0000:8b:00.1 'Device 0d5d' unused=igb_uio,vfio-pci

```

### SRIOV Configuration

The Single Root I/O Virtualization `SR-IOV` is a specification that allows a PCIe device to appear to be multiple separate physical PCIe devices.

> The SR-IOV Network Device Plugin is Kubernetes device plugin for discovering and advertising networking resources in the form of:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The SR-IOV network device plugin is a Kubernetes device plugin for discovering and advertising networking resources such as:
```

Author: changed

```

3. Check the interfaces discovered and available in the node for the FlexRan workload:

```
$ kubectl get $(kubectl get nodes -oname) -o jsonpath='{.status.allocatable}' | jq
{
  "cpu": "64",
  "ephemeral-storage": "256196109726",
  "hugepages-1Gi": "40Gi",
  "hugepages-2Mi": "0",
  "intel.com/intel_fec_5g": "1",
  "intel.com/intel_sriov_odu": "4",
  "intel.com/intel_sriov_oru": "4",
  "memory": "221396384Ki",
  "pods": "110"
}
``` 

As you can see in the output above, we have 2 types of resources available for the FlexRan workload:

- The FEC will be `intel.com/intel_fec_5g` and the value will be 1 because we bind just only 1 of 2.

- The VFs will be `intel.com/intel_sriov_odu` or `intel.com/intel_sriov_oru` and the value will be 4 because we bind 4 VFs for each PF. 

Basically, FlexRan will request some resources available in the host to be used as a VF for the tests we're going to run.

> Important Note: If you don't get the resources available here, does not make sense continue with the flexran demo tests. Please, review the previous steps to ensure you have the VFs created and the SRIOV CNI plugin working properly.

## FlexRan tests

### References

> For this article, we will use the next references to deploy Intel FlexRan on the Suse ATIP Edge Cluster:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this article, we will use the next references to deploy the Intel FlexRan reference implementation on top of the the ATIP edge cluster:
```

- We will use the pre-defined containers from Intel: [FlexRan pre-defined containers](https://hub.docker.com/r/intel/flexran_vdu)

> - You will also need to download the FlexRan-22.07 tarball from Intel to run the tests and mount the downloaded `tests` folder into the pre-defined containers because it's not included into the pre-defined containers. So, you will need to request access to the resource website to your Intel Account Manager in order to download the next files:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You will also need to download the FlexRan-22.07 tarball from Intel to run the tests and mount the downloaded `tests` folder into the pre-defined containers because it's not included into the pre-defined containers.

> In order to download those files, it is required to have access to the Intel website (you can ask your Intel representative).
```

  - FlexRAN-22.07-L1.tar.gz_part00

>   - FlexRAN-22.07-L1.tar.gz_part01

Reviewer: It would be nice if you can provide either sha256 sums or md5sums of those files just in case

Author: let me check it but I think is not available on the resource website

Reviewer: but you can generate those, right?

Author: but why? what's the benefits of that if we're not providing the files?
I mean... I could but why?

> - Container Entrypoint script (Just in case you need to change anything else like the MAC addresses for the VFs)

Reviewer: Can you show an example of this?

Author: The docker entrypoint file is really really big (over 800 lines) because it contains all the tests substitutions blocks. I think is not something relevant because we've just only describe the 3 things we have to change and how we're changing that part. 
it's something I've been thinking a lot during the time I'm writing the blog post but I think the best option for us it's just describe the minimum changes to make it work.

### Prepare the files downloaded from Intel

Once you have the tarball files downloaded from Intel, you can join the files and extract the content:

```
mkdir flexran; 
cp FlexRAN-22.07-L1.tar.gz_part* flexran; 
cd flexran
cat FlexRAN-22.07-L1.tar.gz_part* | tar -xzvf -
```

Now, we need to execute the `extract.sh` script to get the `tests` folder available to be mounted into the containers. Also, we will copy the docker entrypoint script to be modified if needed.

> During this process manual intervention is required to accept the license agreement

```
./extract.sh
mkdir /home/tmp_flexran
cp -R tests/ /home/tmp_flexran/
cp  build/docker/docker_entry.sh /home/tmp_flexran/
```

> The /home/tmp_flexran will be the folder to be mounted into the containers on the next section.

Author: I will change the first part backsticks, but I think makes more sense to explain that will be the mount point for the tests

> Before starting to deploy the FlexRan containers, let's review the next things:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before deploying the FlexRan containers, let's review the next steps:
```

- Interfaces to be used in the flexran pods yaml files, should be referenced by resource names. You could get that: `kubectl get nodes -o json | jq '.items[].status.allocatable'` as we explained in the previous [section](./2023-07-28-flexran.md#sriov-configuration)
- Container Entrypoint script contains the customization of the tests files for out environment. It will modify some parameters like MAC Addresses, vf information and the dpdk info into the `tests`. It will be explained in the next section.
- Tests should be mounted in `/home/tmp_flexran/tests` and expose in `/home/flexran/tests`

> ### Container Entrypoint

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Container entrypoint
```

Basically the FlexRan containers support a container entrypoint script which is executed when the container is created and started.
The script will modify the configuration files of the FlexRan tests applications to adapt the tests to our environment.

The modifications done in this file will be:

> - `PCIDEVICE_INTEL_COM_INTEL_FEC_5G=$(env|grep PCIDEVICE_INTEL_COM_INTEL_FEC_5G= |awk -F '=' '{print $2}')`  in order to select the right PCI device for the FEC ACC100 used for the 5G acceleration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `PCIDEVICE_INTEL_COM_INTEL_FEC_5G=$(env|grep PCIDEVICE_INTEL_COM_INTEL_FEC_5G= |awk -F '=' '{print $2}')`  in order to select the right PCI device for the FEC ACC100 card used for the 5G acceleration.
```

> - `export INTEL_COM_INTEL_CPULIST=$(cat /sys/fs/cgroup/cpuset/cpuset.cpus)` to get the cpu list of the host machine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `export INTEL_COM_INTEL_CPULIST=$(cat /sys/fs/cgroup/cpuset/cpuset.cpus)` to get the CPU list of the host machine.
```

    sed -i "s/ruMac0=[0-9,a-z][0-9,a-z]:[0-9,a-z][0-9,a-z]:[0-9,a-z][0-9,a-z]:[0-9,a-z][0-9,a-z]:[0-9,a-z][0-9,a-z]:[0-9,a-z][0-9,a-z]/ruMac0=00:11:22:33:00:01/g" config_file_o_ru.dat
    sed -i "s/ruMac1=[0-9,a-z][0-9,a-z]:[0-9,a-z][0-9,a-z]:[0-9,a-z][0-9,a-z]:[0-9,a-z][0-9,a-z]:[0-9,a-z][0-9,a-z]:[0-9,a-z][0-9,a-z]/ruMac1=00:11:22:33:00:11/g" config_file_o_ru.dat
    
    sed -i "s/duMac2=[0-9,a-z][0-9,a-z]:[0-9,a-z][0-9,a-z]:[0-9,a-z][0-9,a-z]:[0-9,a-z][0-9,a-z]:[0-9,a-z][0-9,a-z]:[0-9,a-z][0-9,a-z]/duMac2=00:11:22:33:00:20/g" config_file_o_ru.dat
    sed -i "s/duMac3=[0-9,a-z][0-9,a-z]:[0-9,a-z][0-9,a-z]:[0-9,a-z][0-9,a-z]:[0-9,a-z][0-9,a-z]:[0-9,a-z][0-9,a-z]:[0-9,a-z][0-9,a-z]/duMac3=00:11:22:33:00:30/g" config_file_o_ru.dat
    sed -i "s/ruMac2=[0-9,a-z][0-9,a-z]:[0-9,a-z][0-9,a-z]:[0-9,a-z][0-9,a-z]:[0-9,a-z][0-9,a-z]:[0-9,a-z][0-9,a-z]:[0-9,a-z][0-9,a-z]/ruMac2=00:11:22:33:00:21/g" config_file_o_ru.dat
    sed -i "s/ruMac3=[0-9,a-z][0-9,a-z]:[0-9,a-z][0-9,a-z]:[0-9,a-z][0-9,a-z]:[0-9,a-z][0-9,a-z]:[0-9,a-z][0-9,a-z]:[0-9,a-z][0-9,a-z]/ruMac3=00:11:22:33:00:31/g" config_file_o_ru.dat
```

> Then, we need to modify the rest of the block to remove the tests which are not covered in the version of the flexran container we are using.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Then, we need to remove (or comment with the hashtag `#` sign) the tests not covered by the flexran container version we are using (the test files are not present in the FlexRan tests suite used so the script will fail):
```

> We are going to remove (or use # to comment the lines) the next blocks line inside the container entrypoint script:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: I think it's the same than before, so changed that in the previous one

- flexran/bin/nr5g/gnb/l1/orancfg/mmwave_mu3_100mhz_2x2/gnb/
- flexran/bin/nr5g/gnb/l1/orancfg/mmwave_mu3_100mhz_2x2/gnb/
- flexran/bin/nr5g/gnb/l1/orancfg/sub3_mu0_20mhz_sub3_mu1_20mhz_4x4/oru/
- flexran/bin/nr5g/gnb/l1/orancfg/sub3_mu0_20mhz_sub6_mu1_100mhz_4x4/oru/
- flexran/bin/nr5g/gnb/l1/orancfg/mmwave_mu3_100mhz_2x2/oru/

For instance, you will have the next block commented (or removed):

```
#cd /home/flexran/bin/nr5g/gnb/l1/orancfg/sub3_mu0_20mhz_sub3_mu1_20mhz_4x4/gnb/
#sed -i "s/<systemThread>2, 0, 0<\/systemThread>/<systemThread>$systemthread, 0, 0<\/systemThread>/g" phycfg_xran.xml
#sed -i "s/<timerThread>0, 96, 0<\/timerThread>/<timerThread>$timerThread, 96, 0<\/timerThread>/g" phycfg_xran.xml
#sed -i "s/<FpgaDriverCpuInfo>3, 96, 0<\/FpgaDriverCpuInfo>/<FpgaDriverCpuInfo>$FpgaDriverCpuInfo, 96, 0<\/FpgaDriverCpuInfo>/g" phycfg_xran.xml
#sed -i "s/<FrontHaulCpuInfo>3, 96, 0<\/FrontHaulCpuInfo>/<FrontHaulCpuInfo>$FrontHaulCpuInfo, 96, 0<\/FrontHaulCpuInfo>/g" phycfg_xran.xml
#sed -i "s/<radioDpdkMaster>2, 99, 0<\/radioDpdkMaster>/<radioDpdkMaster>$radioDpdkMaster, 99, 0<\/radioDpdkMaster>/g" phycfg_xran.xml
```

> The reason to comment that block is because the files are not present in the FlexRan tests suite into the container and the script will fail without any other substitutions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### FlexRan Timer Mode

FlexRAN Timer Mode use case does not use fronthaul. RF IQ samples are read from files and write to files. The test pod is configured with two containers. One container is for `L1APP`, and another one is for `TestMAC`. 

> Smaller storage is built in pod as Kubernetes resources, but the larger storage is mapped from the host.

Author: Basically the tests folder size is up to 20Gb, so what I'm explaining here is that the storage resource requests is a small storage for the container, but the larger storage is mapped to the tests folder. 
let me change the last part of the sentece for clarity

    - name: proc
      mountPath: /proc
      readOnly: false
  - securityContext:
      privileged: false
      capabilities:
        add:
          - IPC_LOCK
          - SYS_NICE
    command: [ "/bin/bash", "-c", "--" ]
    args: ["sleep 10; sh docker_entry.sh -m timer ; cd /home/flexran/bin/nr5g/gnb/testmac/; ./l2.sh --testfile=icelake-sp/icxsp.cfg; top"]
    tty: true
    stdin: true
    env:
    - name: LD_LIBRARY_PATH
      value: /opt/oneapi/lib/intel64
    image: intel/flexran_vdu:v22.07
    name: flexran-testmac
    resources:
      requests:
        memory: "12Gi"
        hugepages-1Gi: 8Gi
      limits:
        memory: "12Gi"
        hugepages-1Gi: 8Gi
    volumeMounts:
    - name: hugepage
      mountPath: /hugepages
    - name: varrun
      mountPath: /var/run/dpdk
      readOnly: false
    - name: tests
      mountPath: /home/flexran/tests
      readOnly: false
    - name: proc
      mountPath: /proc
      readOnly: false  
  volumes:
  - name: hugepage
    emptyDir:
      medium: HugePages
  - name: varrun
    emptyDir: {}
  - name: tests
    hostPath:
      path: "/home/tmp_flexran/tests"
  - name: proc
    hostPath:
      path: /proc    
EOF
```

> As you can see the next resource will be required:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The next resources are required:
```

- `intel.com/intel_fec_5g: '1'` to request the FEC ACC100 resource.
- `hugepages-1Gi: 16Gi` to request the hugepages resource for the first container.
- `hugepages-1Gi: 8Gi` to request the hugepages resource for the second container.
- `/home/tmp_flexran/tests` folder mounted to `/home/flexran/tests` in order to have the tests available for the containers.
- `image: intel/flexran_vdu:v22.07` to use the pre-defined container from Intel pre-defined containers.

Once the pod is deployed, you can check the status of the pod:

```
kubectl get pods
NAME                        READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
flexran-dockerimage-release   2/2     Running   0          2m
```

> This will launch automatically the Timer Mode Tests which contains 83 tests for the FlexRan library. It could take up to 3 hours running all the tests. You can check the status of the tests in the logs of the containers:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will launch automatically the Timer Mode Tests which contains 83 tests for the FlexRan library. It could take up to 3 hours to complete the tests. The status of the tests can be found in the container logs:
```

```
kubectl logs flexran-dockerimage-release flexran-l1app
```

> At the end of the tests, you should see the next output:

Author: I accept this because we're showing the success result, but this is not only for success result. Even if you have some failures you will get the logs

        command: [ "/bin/bash", "-c", "--" ]
        args: ["cp flexran/build/docker/docker_entry.sh . ; sh docker_entry.sh -m xran ; top"]
        tty: true
        stdin: true
        env:
         - name: LD_LIBRARY_PATH
           value: /opt/oneapi/lib/intel64
        image: intel/flexran_vdu:v22.07
        name: flexran-oru
        resources:
          requests:
            memory: "24Gi"
            hugepages-1Gi: 16Gi
            intel.com/intel_sriov_oru: '4'
          limits:
            memory: "24Gi"
            hugepages-1Gi: 16Gi
            intel.com/intel_sriov_oru: '4'
        volumeMounts:
        - name: hugepage
          mountPath: /hugepages
        - name: varrun
          mountPath: /var/run/dpdk
          readOnly: false
        - name: tests
          mountPath: /home/flexran/tests
          readOnly: false
        - name: proc
          mountPath: /proc
          readOnly: false
      volumes:
      - name: hugepage
        emptyDir:
          medium: HugePages
      - name: varrun
        emptyDir: {}
      - name: tests
        hostPath:
          path: "/home/tmp_flexran/tests"
      - name: proc
        hostPath:
          path: /proc

EOF  
```

> As you can see the next resource will be required:

Reviewer: Same as before

- `intel.com/intel_fec_5g: '1'` to request the FEC ACC100 resource.
- `intel.com/intel_sriov_odu: '4'` to request the 4 VFs for the ODU interface.
- `intel.com/intel_sriov_oru: '4'` to request the 4 VFs for the ORU interface.
- `hugepages-1Gi: 20Gi` to request the hugepages resource for the first container.
- `hugepages-1Gi: 16Gi` to request the hugepages resource for the second container.
- `/home/tmp_flexran/tests` folder mounted to `/home/flexran/tests` in order to have the tests available for the containers.

Once the pods are deployed, you need to launch the tests manually. You can do that using the next commands:

1. Open a terminal in the flexran-vdu pod and run the following commands:

> ``` 

Reviewer: I guess you can put the kubectl exec command here as well.

cd flexran/bin/nr5g/gnb/l1/orancfg/sub6_mu1_100mhz_4x4/gnb/
./l1.sh -oru

```

2. Open a new terminal in the flexran-vdu pod and run the following commands:

```
cd flexran/bin/nr5g/gnb/testmac
./l2.sh --testfile=../l1/orancfg/sub6_mu1_100mhz_4x4/gnb/testmac_clxsp_mu1_100mhz_hton_oru.cfg
```

3. Open a third terminal to run the flexran-vru pod and run the followin commands:

``` 
cd flexran/bin/nr5g/gnb/l1/orancfg/sub6_mu1_100mhz_4x4/oru/
chmod +x run_o_ru.sh; taskset -c 20 ./run_o_ru.sh
```

> Using `htop` we could see the CPU usage of the containers as well as the pinned cores for this workload:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using `htop` we could observe the CPU usage of the containers as well as the pinned cores for this workload:
```

Author: mostly it's the same meaning, right?  hehe

This article focuses on using [Rancher](https://www.rancher.com/) to perform cluster life cycle management, cloud-native microservices life cycle management, contained application resource management, and telemetry data monitoring with role-based access control, as well as the use of [SLE Micro RT](https://www.suse.com/products/realtime/) Operating System and [RKE2](https://docs.rke2.io/) kubernetes cluster to run the FlexRAN tests on top of that stack.
 
The architecture outlined in this document focuses on [ORAN Alliance 7-2x lower-level](https://www.o-ran.org/blog/20-new-o-ran-specifications-have-been-released-since-june-2020) split to front haul. We will use the FlexRAN library to build our test applications that will support front haul C-Plane and U-plane, which will be part of the O-DU components.

> With this cloud-native setup, you can simplify the installation and configuration of Intel® FlexRAN on the `Suse Edge ATIP` (Adaptive Telco Infrastructure Platform) stack, enabling you to focus on site-specific vRAN customizations vRAN. Also, it allows to prove that telecom containerized applications like DU/CU can be run on RKE2 cluster on top of the SLE Micro RT OS taking advantage of the accelerator cards. In addition, we show that we are applying the full power and potential of the accelerator card and CPU.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this cloud-native setup, you can simplify the installation and configuration of Intel® FlexRAN on the `Suse Edge ATIP` (Adaptive Telco Infrastructure Platform) stack, enabling you to focus on site-specific vRAN customizations vRAN. Also, it demonstrates that telecom containerised applications like DU/CU can be run on RKE2 cluster on top of the SLE Micro RT OS taking advantage of the accelerator cards. In addition, we show that we are applying the full power and potential of the accelerator card and CPU.
```

> For more information about Intel FlexRan, see the official [Intel FlexRan website](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/topic-technology/edge-5g/tools/flexran.html)
>
> For more infomration about Suse ATIP, see the official [Suse Edge ATIP](https://deploy-preview-68--frolicking-rolypoly-9c0c48.netlify.app/docs/product/atip/introduction)

## Architecture

> The architecture for this article is based on the following components:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The architecture is based on the following components:
```

> - Rancher Management Cluster: This component will be used to manage the lifecycle of the RKE2 clusters deployed for the FlexRAN solution, as well as the monitoring platform based on Grafana and Prometheus.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Rancher Management Cluster: This component will be used to manage the lifecycle of the RKE2 clusters deployed for the FlexRAN solution, as well as the monitoring platform based on Grafana and Prometheus. This cluster is based on a single-node RKE2 cluster on top of SLE Micro Operating System.
```

> - Edge Cluster 1: This cluster will be used to deploy the `FlexRan Timer Mode tests`. This cluster is based on the SLE Micro RT Operating System and the RKE2 kubernetes cluster (single node) on top of that OS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Edge Cluster 1: This cluster will be used to deploy the `FlexRan Timer Mode tests`. This cluster is based on a single-node RKE2 cluster on top of SLE Micro RT Operating System.
```

> - Edge Cluster 2: This cluster will be used to deploy the `FlexRan Xran Mode tests`. This cluster is based on the SLE Micro RT Operating System and the RKE2 kubernetes cluster (single node) on top of that OS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Edge Cluster 2: This cluster will be used to deploy the `FlexRan Xran Mode tests`. This cluster is based on a single-node RKE2 cluster on top of SLE Micro RT Operating System.
```

> Note: The FlexRan tests could be deployed on the same edge cluster, but just for clarity and simplicity in the article, we will deploy them on different clusters.

![img.png](2023-07-29-flexran-images/architecture-components.png)

## Hardware and Software components

### Hardware
The hardware used for this article is based on the following components:

- Dell PowerEdge XR11 servers
- Intel XEON Gold 6338N 2.2G
- 8 x 32GB RDIMM 3200MT/S
- 2 x 480GB SSD SATA Disk
- Intel E810-CQDA2 Dual Port 100GbE QSFP28
- ACC100 FEC Accelerator card

### Software
The software used for this article is based on the following components:

- Operating system: `SLE Micro RT 5.4` 
- Kernel Real Time: `5.14.21-150400.15.11-rt` 
- RKE2 version: `v1.25.9+rke2r1`

> - CNI plugins: `Multus + Calico`

Reviewer: Which versions?

Reviewer: You closed this as resolved but still there is no multus/calico versions

Author: you're right. Updated with the version

> - Rancher release: `rancher-stable`

Reviewer: Which version?

Author: updated with the rancher version

- Dpdk version: `22.11`

> - SRIOV upstream 

Reviewer: Which version?

Author: updated with the version

### Flexran

> The FlexRan version used for this article is based on the following components:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The FlexRan deployment used for this article is based on the following components:
```

- FlexRAN version: `22.07` using [pre-defined containers](https://hub.docker.com/r/intel/flexran_vdu) from intel.
- Intel OneAPI Base Toolkit: `2022.1.2.146`

## Rancher Management Cluster

> In our case, the Rancher management cluster will be used to manage the lifecycle of the RKE2 edge clusters deployed for the FlexRAN solution, as well as the monitoring platform based on Grafana and Prometheus.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, the Rancher management cluster will be used to manage the lifecycle of the RKE2 edge clusters deployed for the FlexRAN solution, as well as the monitoring platform based on Grafana and Prometheus.
```

Author: not really difference between both

![img.png](2023-07-29-flexran-images/mgmt-component.png)

> > For this article, we will assume the Operating System is already installed on the Management Server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The operating system installation steps have been omitted for the sake of brevity.
```

> For more information about how to install the Operating System, see the next [link](https://suse-edge.github.io/docs/product/atip/management-cluster)

### RKE2 Cluster Installation on the Management Server

> Once you have the Operating System installed, you can proceed with the Rancher installation. For this article, we will install a RKE2 cluster and then, the Rancher Helm chart to install the Rancher management cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following steps show how to install RKE2:
```

1. Run the RKE2 installer:

`curl -sfL https://get.rke2.io | sh -`

> if you want to install a especific version, you can use the following command (i.e. `v1.25.9+rke2r1`):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to install a particular version(i.e. `v1.25.9+rke2r1`) the `INSTALL_RKE2_VERSION` variable can be used as:
```

`curl -sfL https://get.rke2.io | INSTALL_RKE2_VERSION="v1.25.9+rke2r1" sh -`

> For more information about the installation, please refer to the documentation: https://docs.rke2.io/install/install_options/

> 2. Enable the rke2-server service:
> 
> `systemctl enable rke2-server.service`
> 
> 3. Start the service:
> 
> `systemctl start rke2-server.service`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Enable and start the rke2-server service:

`systemctl enable --now rke2-server.service`
```

> In case you want to run the RKE2 agent, you can follow the next steps:

Reviewer: A brief explanation here about why you would like to do this would be nice.

Author: thanks. updated with the explanation

1. Run the RKE2 installer:

`curl -sfL https://get.rke2.io | INSTALL_RKE2_TYPE="agent" sh -`

> 2. Enable the rke2-agent service:
> 
> `systemctl enable rke2-agent.service`
> 
> 3. Configure the config.yaml file located in `/etc/rancher/rke2/` with the following content:
> 
> ```yaml
> server: https://<server>:9345
> token: <token from server node>
> ```
> 
> 3. Start the service:
> 
> `systemctl start rke2-agent.service`
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Configure the config.yaml file located in `/etc/rancher/rke2/` with the following content:

```yaml
server: https://<server>:9345
token: <token from server node>
```

3. Enable and start the service:

`systemctl enable --now rke2-agent.service`
```

Reviewer: I don't know why GitHub breaks my suggestion :(

Author: because you forgot the ``` ???
but it's ok no worries

### Rancher Manager Install

Rancher is installed using the Helm package manager for Kubernetes.

> Helm charts provide templating syntax for Kubernetes YAML manifest documents. With Helm, we can create configurable deployments instead of just using static files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: I'd like to keep that information

> > This section covers the installation of Rancher on the management cluster nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> This section covers the deployment of Rancher on the management cluster.
```

>

> > For more information about the installation, please refer to the documentation: https://ranchermanager.docs.rancher.com/v2.7/pages-for-subheaders/install-upgrade-on-a-kubernetes-cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> For more information about the Rancher manager installation, please refer to the documentation: https://ranchermanager.docs.rancher.com/v2.7/pages-for-subheaders/install-upgrade-on-a-kubernetes-cluster
```

1. Add the Helm repository

> There are three releases available to be added as a Helm repository for Rancher. In our case, we will use the `rancher-stable` because it's the release recommended for production environments, but you could use `rancher-latest` or `rancher-alpha` if you want. Also, there is a `rancher primer` release that is the enterprise version of Rancher.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are three Rancher manager releases available to be added as a Helm repository for Rancher. In our case, we will use the `rancher-stable` because it's the release recommended for production environments, but you could use `rancher-latest` or `rancher-alpha` if you want. Also, there is a `rancher primer` release that is the enterprise version of Rancher.
```

`helm repo add rancher-stable https://releases.rancher.com/server-charts/stable`

> If you don't have `helm` installed previously, you could install it using the following command:
>
> `curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/helm/helm/master/scripts/get-helm-3 |bash`
>

2. Choose your SSL Configuration

The Rancher management server is designed to be secure by default and requires SSL/TLS configuration.

There are three recommended options for SSL/TLS configuration:
- Rancher-generated TLS certificate
- Let's Encrypt
- Bring your own certificate

> For more information about the SSL/TLS configuration, please refer to the documentation: https://ranchermanager.docs.rancher.com/v2.7/pages-for-subheaders/install-upgrade-on-a-kubernetes-cluster/#3-choose-your-ssl-configuration

> In our case we will use the Rancher-generated TLS certificate:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In our case we will use the Rancher-generated TLS certificate. This requires `cert-manager` to be deployed in the cluster as:
```

```shell 
helm repo add jetstack https://charts.jetstack.io
helm repo update
helm install cert-manager jetstack/cert-manager \
		--namespace cert-manager \
		--create-namespace \
		--set installCRDs=true \
		--version v1.11.1 
```

Once you've installed cert-manager, you can verify the pods are running:
`kubectl get pods --namespace cert-manager`

> 3. Install Rancher with Helm and your chosen certificate option

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Install Rancher with Helm using the following command modifying the `<hostname>` and `<bootstrapPassword>` values to fit your environment:
```

> You can install Rancher with helm using the following command modifying the `<hostname>` and `<bootstrapPassword>` values:
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```shell 
helm install rancher rancher-stable/rancher \
        --namespace cattle-system \
        --create-namespace \
        --set hostname=<hostname> \
        --set bootstrapPassword=<bootstrapPassword> \
        --set replicas=1 \
        --set global.cattle.psp.enabled=false
```

4. Verify the Rancher installation

You should wait a few minutes for Rancher to be rolled out:

`kubectl -n cattle-system rollout status deploy/rancher`

> 
> 
> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Edge Cluster deployment

This section covers the installation of the edge cluster nodes in order to deploy the FlexRan tests. In our case, we will deploy two edge clusters, one for the FlexRan Timer Mode tests and another one for the FlexRan Xran Mode tests.
The configuration of the edge cluster nodes is based on the following components, and it will be the same for the two edge clusters:

![img.png](2023-07-29-flexran-images/edge.png)

### BIOS Configuration

> *Note*: This configuration depends on the hardware vendor, so please, check with your hardware vendor the best configuration to be used.

> This section is really important to optimize the performance of the real time kernel in the hardware, because some of this parameters could increase not limiting the performance of the real time kernel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pay special attention to the parameters suggested here as some of them could dramatically increase or decrease the performance of the tests being executed.
```

| Scalability                                    | Disable | Core Performance to frequency scalability based on optimizations in the CPU.|
| Native ASPM                                    | Disable | ASPM off not controlled by BIOS or OS.|
| Power Performance Tuning                       | OS Controls EPB | This option selects the BIOS or OS that controls the Energy Performance Bias (EPB) functionality.|
| Workload Configuration                         | I/O sensitive | This option allows the system power and performance profile to be set to favor compute intensive workload or I/O sensitive workload.| 
| Dynamic L1                                     | Disable | This option applies only to the package-level setting to allow dynamically entering the lower power link state L1.|
| Set Fan Profile                                |Performance | This option allows the fan profile to be set to Performance, Balanced, or Quiet.|
| Cooling Configuration - Fan Speed Offset       | Medium| This option allows the fan speed offset to be set to Low, Medium, or High.|

### OS Installation

> For this article, we will assume the Operating System Micro RT is installed on the baremetal for edge clusters. The most important thing is to ensure you're using the `Real Time Kernel`. In our case, we will use the `SLE Micro RT 5.4` Operating System.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this example, we will assume the SLE Micro RT 5.4 operating system has been already installed on the baremetal host used to deploy the edge clusters.
```

> To verify the kernel version, you can use the following command:
> ```shell
> uname -r
> 5.14.21-150400.15.11-rt
> ```
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To verify the kernel version, you can use the following command (pay attention to the `-rt` suffix):

```shell
$ uname -r
5.14.21-150400.15.11-rt
```

```

> > For more information about how to install the Operating System SLE Micro RT, see the next [link](https://suse-edge.github.io/docs/product/atip/management-cluster#os-install)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> For more information about how to install the SLE Micro RT operating system, see the next [link](https://suse-edge.github.io/docs/product/atip/management-cluster#os-install)
```

### OS Configuration and Tunning

Once you have the Operating System installed, you can proceed with the Operating System configuration. For this article, we will configure the Operating System using the next steps:

1. CPU Tuned Configuration

> The first thing is to create a profile for the cpu cores we want to isolate. In this case, we will isolate the cores 1-30 and 33-62.

Reviewer: Why you want to isolate those cores?

Reviewer: Also CPU instead of cpu

Author: changed to explain a little but it's part of the flexran reqs

```
echo "export tuned_params" >> /etc/grub.d/00_tuned

echo "isolated_cores=1-30,33-62" >> /etc/tuned/cpu-partitioning-variables.conf

systemctl enable tuned; systemctl start tuned

tuned-adm profile cpu-partitioning
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The grub configuration will be generated in the next step.
```

Author: I think is not neccesary

2. Grub Configuration

> We need to modify grub option to configure the isolate cpu cores as well as another important parameters for the cpu usage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We need to modify some grub options to be able to do the CPU isolation as well as another parameters for CPU performance on this scenario.
```

> Modify in /etc/default/grub the next line, to add the cpu cores to isolate. The next options are the most important to be customized with your current hardware:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Modify the `/etc/default/grub` file to add the CPU cores to isolate. The next options are the most important to be customized with this example hardware:
```

| parameter | value | description                                                                                              |
|-----------|-------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| isolcpu| 1-30,33-62| Isolate the cores 1-30 and 33-62                                                                         |

> | skew_tick| 1 | This option allows the kernel to skew the timer interrupts across the isolated CPUs.                     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| skew_tick| 1 | Allows the kernel to skew the timer interrupts across the isolated CPUs.                     |
```

> | nohz| on | This option allows the kernel to run the timer tick on a single CPU when the system is idle.             |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| nohz| on | Allows the kernel to run the timer tick on a single CPU when the system is idle.             |
```

| nohz_full| 1-30,33-62 | kernel boot parameter is the current main interface to configure full dynticks along with CPU Isolation. |
| rcu_nocbs| 1-30,33-62 | This option allows the kernel to run the RCU callbacks on a single CPU when the system is idle.          |
| kthread_cpus| 0,31,32,63 | This option allows the kernel to run the kthreads on a single CPU when the system is idle.               |
| irqaffinity| 0,31,32,63 | This option allows the kernel to run the interrupts on a single CPU when the system is idle.             |
|processor.max_cstate| 1 | This option prevents the CPU from dropping into a sleep state when idle                                  |   
|intel_idle.max_cstate| 0 | This option disables the intel_idle driver and allows acpi_idle to be used|
| iommu       | pt         | This option allows to use vfio for the dpdk interfaces                                                   |
| intel_iommu | on         | This option enables to use vfio for VFs.       |
| hugepagesz | 1G    | This options allows to set the size of huge pages to 1G |

> | hugepages | 40    | This is the number of hugepages defined before          |

Reviewer: `This option` doesn't add anything and makes the table unnecessary bigger.

> | default_hugepagesz| 1G | This is the default value to get the huge pages |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| default_hugepagesz| 1G | This is the default value to enable huge pages |
```

> 

Reviewer: I miss a lot of information here about those parameters and why are they important. Maybe I don't have enough context/knowledge about this but I recommend you to add some links/references for folks to read more about this.

Author: I think is part of the context of the blog post, but let add some links to the ATIP doc features

With the values showed above, we are isolating 60 cores, and we are using 4 cores for the OS.

Let's modify the grub file with the previous values:
``` 
vi /boot/efi/EFI/sle_rt/grub.cfg
	set tuned_params="skew_tick=1 nohz=on nohz_full=1-30,33-62 rcu_nocbs=1-30,33-62 tuned.non_isolcpus=80000001,80000001 nosoftlockup"

vi /etc/default/grub
    GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX="intel_iommu=on intel_pstate=passive processor.max_cstate=1 intel_idle.max_cstate=0 iommu=pt usbcore.autosuspend=-1 selinux=0 enforcing=0 nmi_watchdog=0 crashkernel=auto softlockup_panic=0 audit=0 mce=off hugepagesz=1G hugepages=40 hugepagesz=2M hugepages=0 default_hugepagesz=1G kthread_cpus=0,31,32,63 irqaffinity=0,31,32,63 isolcpu=1-30,33-62 skew_tick=1 nohz_full=1-30,33-62 rcu_nocbs=1-30,33-62 rcu_nocb_poll"

> transactional-update grub.cfg

Reviewer: My recommendation is to make this much more clear. I don't know which line I'm supposed to change nor what was the previous content.

Author: I think it's clear because basically is to add the parameteres described before using the table

```

To validate that the parameters are applied after reboot, you could check:

```
cat /proc/cmdline
```

3. Install the dependencies.

```
transactional-update shell

suseconnect -p PackageHub/15.4/x86_64
zypper in dpdk dpdk-tools pf-bb-config pciutils 

exit
```

4. CPU Performance

Further improve the deterministic and power efficiency:

`cpupower frequency-set -g performance`

> Set cpu core frequency to 2.6Ghz:

Reviewer: Why that particular number?

`cpupower frequency-set -u 2500000`

`cpupower frequency-set -d 2500000`

> Set cpu uncore to fixed – maximum allowed. Disable c6 and c1e (only if enabled):

Reviewer: Same, no explanation here.

`cpupower idle-set -d 3`

`cpupower idle-set -d 2`

5. Check the CPU performance

You should see the driver intel_cpufreq and the governor performance with a frequency range between 2.5 and 2.6Ghz:
```
cpupower frequency-info
...
analyzing CPU 0:
  driver: intel_cpufreq
  CPUs which run at the same hardware frequency: 0
  CPUs which need to have their frequency coordinated by software: 0
  maximum transition latency: 20.0 us
  hardware limits: 800 MHz - 3.50 GHz
  available cpufreq governors: ondemand performance schedutil
  current policy: frequency should be within 800 MHz and 3.50 GHz.
                  The governor "performance" may decide which speed to use
                  within this range.
  current CPU frequency: Unable to call hardware
  current CPU frequency: 2.60 GHz (asserted by call to kernel)
  boost state support:
    Supported: yes
    Active: yes
...
```

### RKE2 Cluster Installation

The RKE2 installation could be done creating a new cluster from the Rancher UI or importing an existing RKE2 cluster to Rancher.

> In our case, for simplicity and reducing the article size, we will install a new RKE2 Cluster from scratch importing it after that directly into Rancher.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In our case, for brevity we will install a new RKE2 Cluster from scratch importing it after that directly into Rancher.
```

> If you want to install the RKE2 cluster from the Rancher UI you can follow the next [document](https://suse-edge.github.io/docs/product/atip/edge-site#edge-site-definition)

1. Run the RKE2 installer:

> In our case we're using the next version: `v1.25.9+rke2r1`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this scenario we use the `v1.25.9+rke2r1` version as:
```

```
curl -sfL https://get.rke2.io | INSTALL_RKE2_VERSION="v1.25.9+rke2r1" sh -
```

2. Modify the service in order to install calico and multus CNI plugins:

Modify the `/etc/systemd/system/rke2-server.service` file to add the next line in order to install calico and multus CNI plugins:
```
ExecStart=/opt/rke2/bin/rke2 server --cni=multus,calico

> ```

Reviewer: I don't think this is the proper way. Yes we did it for the scripts but you should use the rke2 config file https://docs.rke2.io/install/configuration

3. Start rke2-server service:
``` 

> systemctl daemon-reload; systemctl enable rke2-server; systemctl start rke2-server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
systemctl daemon-reload && systemctl enable --now rke2-server
```

```

4. Check the installation

> Let's see the pods to ensure calico and multus are running:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure the calico and multus pods are running:
```

Reviewer: In fact, there are no multus pods AFAIK... what would be the best way to check if multus has been deployed?

Author: yes there's multus pod: rke2-multus-ds-4zsqr  
no need another way to check this

kube-system       kube-proxy-xr11-2                                       1/1     Running     0          3m48s
kube-system       kube-scheduler-xr11-2                                   1/1     Running     0          3m51s
kube-system       rke2-coredns-rke2-coredns-6b9548f79f-bc54n              1/1     Running     0          3m26s
kube-system       rke2-coredns-rke2-coredns-autoscaler-57647bc7cf-bfggl   1/1     Running     0          3m26s
kube-system       rke2-ingress-nginx-controller-6vsgf                     1/1     Running     0          2m18s
kube-system       rke2-metrics-server-7d58bbc9c6-qjkvr                    1/1     Running     0          2m33s
kube-system       rke2-multus-ds-4zsqr                                    1/1     Running     0          3m26s
kube-system       rke2-snapshot-controller-7b5b4f946c-rhtxn               1/1     Running     0          2m32s
kube-system       rke2-snapshot-validation-webhook-7748dbf6ff-cfmpm       1/1     Running     0          2m1s
tigera-operator   tigera-operator-7bd6b54cb8-2jm92                        1/1     Running     0          3m23s
```

### ACC100 Configuration

> The ACC100 accelerator card is a PCIe card that provides a hardware acceleration for the Forward Error Correction (FEC) algorithm. This card is used by the FlexRan library to accelerate the FEC algorithm and improve the performance of the DU/CU components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ACC100 accelerator card is a PCIe card that provides hardware acceleration for the Forward Error Correction (FEC) algorithm. This card is used by the FlexRan library to improve the performance of the DU/CU components.
```
Remove the redundancy

> 1. Load igb_uio kernel module

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Load the `igb_uio` kernel module
```

> > During the OS configuration section we have installed the igb driver, dpdk as well as the pf-bb-config tool [requirements](./2023-07-28-flexran.md#os-configuration-and-tunning)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> During the OS configuration section we have installed the `ibg` driver, `dpdk` as well as the `pf-bb-config` tool [requirements](./2023-07-28-flexran.md#os-configuration-and-tunning)
```

Always use format style for commands, packages and things like that.

> We will start configuring the Accelerator Card to load the ibg_uio and the vfio-pci module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will start configuring the Accelerator Card by loading the `ibg_uio` and the `vfio-pci` module.
```

```
modprobe igb_uio
modprobe vfio-pci
```

> 2. Get interface information ACC100

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Verify ACC100 has been enabled by the OS
```

> Maybe in some cases (depending on the OS) you should add to the path the /sbin/ for the lspci command doing: `export PATH=$PATH:/sbin/`
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: I want to keep that info because it was something useful for the customer PoC so let's keep that info.

```

> lspci | grep -i acc

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ /sbin/lspci | grep -i acc
```
You don't need to add /sbin to the path just to run a command, you can use the full path.

8a:00.0 Processing accelerators: Intel Corporation Device 0d5c
```

> 3. Bind the PF with igb_uio driver:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Bind the Physical Function (PF) to the `igb_uio` driver:
```

Hint: When you use a term such as PF, you should always put what it means the first time (Physical Function in this case IIRC).

``` 
dpdk-devbind.py -b igb_uio 0000:8a:00.0
```

> 4. Create 2 vfs from the PF and bind with vfio-pci driver:

Reviewer: Same for VFS

Reviewer: and bind _them_

```
echo 2 > /sys/bus/pci/devices/0000:8a:00.0/max_vfs
dpdk-devbind.py -b vfio-pci 0000:8b:00.0
```

> 5. Configure acc100 using the pf-bb-config tool:

Reviewer: use backticks to style the commands

Author: but...it has backsticks right?

> The Physical Function (PF) Baseband Device (BBDEV) Configuration Application (pf_bb_config) provides a means to configure a baseband device at the host level. The program accesses the configuration space and sets various parameters through memory-mapped I/O (MMIO) reads and writes.

Reviewer: same

Author: what's same? the explanation of pf-bb-config is inside

Reviewer: the backticks. See https://developers.google.com/style/code-in-text

The parameters are parsed from a given configuration file (with .cfg extensions) that is specific to a particular baseband device, although they follow same format.

> > For more information about the pf-bb-config tool, please refer to the [documentation](https://github.com/intel/pf-bb-config)

Reviewer: same

Author: sorry could you say me what's same?

Author: ok.

Done in previous too

```
pf_bb_config ACC100 -c /opt/pf-bb-config/acc100_config_vf_5g.cfg
Tue Jun  6 10:49:20 2023:INFO:Queue Groups: 2 5GUL, 2 5GDL, 2 4GUL, 2 4GDL
Tue Jun  6 10:49:20 2023:INFO:Configuration in VF mode
Tue Jun  6 10:49:21 2023:INFO: ROM version MM 99AD92
Tue Jun  6 10:49:21 2023:WARN:* Note: Not on DDR PRQ version  1302020 != 10092020
Tue Jun  6 10:49:21 2023:INFO:PF ACC100 configuration complete

> Tue Jun  6 10:49:21 2023:INFO:ACC100 PF [0000:8a:00.0] configuration complete!

Reviewer: Add the $ prompt or a new line after the command that was typed by the user, otherwise is a little bit confusing.

```

> 6. Check the new VFs created which will be used by the FlexRan library:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Check the new VFs created are available and ready to be used by the FlexRan library:
```

```
dpdk-devbind.py -s
...
...
...
Baseband devices using DPDK-compatible driver
=============================================
0000:8a:00.0 'Device 0d5c' drv=igb_uio unused=vfio-pci
0000:8b:00.0 'Device 0d5d' drv=vfio-pci unused=igb_uio

Other Baseband devices
======================
0000:8b:00.1 'Device 0d5d' unused=igb_uio,vfio-pci
...
...
...
```

> 

Reviewer: I'm stopping here and will continue later.

---
slug: Flexran

> title: Deploying FlexRan on Suse Edge ATIP

Author: makes sense. Changed

authors:
  name: Alberto Morgante Medina
  title: Sr. Edge Telco Engineer
  url: https://github.com/alknopfler
  image_url: https://github.com/alknopfler.png
tags: [edge, telco, flexran]
---

## Introduction

> Intel® FlexRAN is a reference implementation for cloud enabled wireless access virtual network functions `VNFs`. It shows how to efficiently implement wireless access loads through flexible software architecture, Intel® Xeon® Scalable processors using Intel® Advanced Vector Extensions 512 `Intel® AVX 512` instruction set, and optimized network functions virtualization infrastructure `NFVi` with Intel-specific patches for the Data Plane Development Kit `DPDK`.

Author: done

> This article focuses on using [Rancher](https://www.rancher.com/) to perform cluster life cycle management, cloud-native microservices life cycle management, contained application resource management, and telemetry data monitoring with role-based access control, as well as the use of [SLE Micro RT](https://www.suse.com/products/realtime/) Operating System and [RKE2](https://docs.rke2.io/) kubernetes cluster to run the FlexRAN tests on top of that stack.

Author: done

 
The architecture outlined in this document focuses on [ORAN Alliance 7-2x lower-level](https://www.o-ran.org/blog/20-new-o-ran-specifications-have-been-released-since-june-2020) split to front haul. We will use the FlexRAN library to build our test applications that will support front haul C-Plane and U-plane, which will be part of the O-DU components.

With this cloud-native setup, you can simplify the installation and configuration of Intel® FlexRAN on the `Suse Edge ATIP` (Adaptive Telco Infrastructure Platform) stack, enabling you to focus on site-specific vRAN customizations vRAN. Also, it demostrates that telecom containerised applications like DU/CU can be run on RKE2 cluster on top of the SLE Micro RT OS taking advantage of the accelerator cards. In addition, we show that we are applying the full power and potential of the accelerator card and CPU.

> For more information about Intel FlexRan, see the official [Intel FlexRan website](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/topic-technology/edge-5g/tools/flexran.html)
>

> > For more infomration about Suse ATIP, see the official [Suse Edge ATIP](https://deploy-preview-68--frolicking-rolypoly-9c0c48.netlify.app/docs/product/atip/introduction)

Author: you're right! that was the preview doc

### RKE2 Cluster Installation on the Management Server

Once you have the Operating System installed, you can proceed with the Rancher installation. First, we will install a RKE2 cluster and then, the Rancher Helm chart to install the Rancher management cluster.

1. Run the RKE2 installer:

`curl -sfL https://get.rke2.io | sh -`

if you want to install a particular version, the `INSTALL_RKE2_VERSION` variable can be used as:

`curl -sfL https://get.rke2.io | INSTALL_RKE2_VERSION="v1.25.9+rke2r1" sh -`

> For more information about the installation, please refer to the documentation: https://docs.rke2.io/install/install_options/

2. Enable and start the rke2-server service:

`systemctl enable --now rke2-server.service`

In case you want to run the RKE2 agent (in case you need to add more nodes designated to run your apps and services), you can follow the next steps:

1. Run the RKE2 installer:

`curl -sfL https://get.rke2.io | INSTALL_RKE2_TYPE="agent" sh -`

2. Configure the config.yaml file located in `/etc/rancher/rke2/` with the following content:
```yaml
server: https://<server>:9345

> token: <token from server node>

Author: yes, there's a note before that step (line 95). It's only if you need to run rke2 agent to use more nodes running workloads.

		--version v1.11.1 
```

Once you've installed cert-manager, you can verify the pods are running:
`kubectl get pods --namespace cert-manager`

3. Install Rancher with Helm using the following command modifying the `<hostname>` and `<bootstrapPassword>` values to fit your environment:

```shell 
helm install rancher rancher-stable/rancher \
        --namespace cattle-system \
        --create-namespace \
        --set hostname=<hostname> \
        --set bootstrapPassword=<bootstrapPassword> \
        --set replicas=1 \
        --set global.cattle.psp.enabled=false
```

4. Verify the Rancher installation

You should wait a few minutes for Rancher to be rolled out:

`kubectl -n cattle-system rollout status deploy/rancher`

## Edge Cluster deployment

This section covers the installation of the edge cluster nodes in order to deploy the FlexRan tests. In our case, we will deploy two edge clusters, one for the FlexRan Timer Mode tests and another one for the FlexRan Xran Mode tests.
The configuration of the edge cluster nodes is based on the following components, and it will be the same for the two edge clusters:

![img.png](2023-07-29-flexran-images/edge.png)

> ### BIOS Configuration

Author: that's true. Something we talked some time ago. Adapt it just for the specific hardware. Thanks Tim

| Scalability                                    | Disable | Core Performance to frequency scalability based on optimizations in the CPU.|
| Native ASPM                                    | Disable | ASPM off not controlled by BIOS or OS.|
| Power Performance Tuning                       | OS Controls EPB | This option selects the BIOS or OS that controls the Energy Performance Bias (EPB) functionality.|
| Workload Configuration                         | I/O sensitive | This option allows the system power and performance profile to be set to favor compute intensive workload or I/O sensitive workload.| 
| Dynamic L1                                     | Disable | This option applies only to the package-level setting to allow dynamically entering the lower power link state L1.|
| Set Fan Profile                                |Performance | This option allows the fan profile to be set to Performance, Balanced, or Quiet.|
| Cooling Configuration - Fan Speed Offset       | Medium| This option allows the fan speed offset to be set to Low, Medium, or High.|

### OS Installation

> For this example, we will assume the SLE Micro RT 5.4 operating system has been already installed on the baremetal host used to deploy the edge clusters. To verify the `Real Time Kernel` version used, you can use the following command (pay attention to the `-rt` suffix):

Author: added a note to explain how to download from SCC the RT image

```shell
uname -r
5.14.21-150400.15.11-rt
```

> For more information about how to install the operating system SLE Micro RT, see the next [link](https://suse-edge.github.io/docs/product/atip/management-cluster#os-install)

### OS Configuration and Tunning

Once you have the Operating System installed, you can proceed with the Operating System configuration. For this article, we will configure the Operating System using the next steps:

1. CPU Tuned Configuration

The first thing is to create a profile for the CPU cores we want to isolate. In this case, we will isolate the cores 1-30 and 33-62 to be used by FlexRan, keeping also some cores available for the system.

```
echo "export tuned_params" >> /etc/grub.d/00_tuned

echo "isolated_cores=1-30,33-62" >> /etc/tuned/cpu-partitioning-variables.conf

systemctl enable tuned; systemctl start tuned

tuned-adm profile cpu-partitioning
```

2. Grub Configuration

We need to modify some grub options to be able to do the CPU isolation as well as another important parameters for the CPU performance on this scenario.

> Modify the `/etc/default/grub` file to add the cpu cores to isolate. The next options have to be customized with your current hardware environment:

Author: yes, you're right, not only cpu cores

| parameter | value | description                                                                                          |
|-----------|-------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | isolcpu| 1-30,33-62| Isolate the cores 1-30 and 33-62                                                                     |

Author: yes

transactional-update grub.cfg
```

To validate that the parameters are applied after reboot, you could check:

```
cat /proc/cmdline
```

3. Install the dependencies.

```
transactional-update shell

cat > /etc/zypp/repos.d/flexran-dependencies.repo << EOF
[home_amorgante_branches_home_dpitchumani]
name=Branch project for package DPDK-22.11 (15.4)
type=rpm-md
baseurl=https://download.opensuse.org/repositories/home:/amorgante:/branches:/home:/dpitchumani/15.4/
gpgcheck=1
gpgkey=https://download.opensuse.org/repositories/home:/amorgante:/branches:/home:/dpitchumani/15.4/repodata/repomd.xml.key
enabled=1

[home_amorgante]
name=home:amorgante (15.4)
type=rpm-md
baseurl=https://download.opensuse.org/repositories/home:/amorgante/15.4/
gpgcheck=1
gpgkey=https://download.opensuse.org/repositories/home:/amorgante/15.4/repodata/repomd.xml.key
enabled=1
EOF

suseconnect -p PackageHub/15.4/x86_64

> zypper in dpdk dpdk-tools pf-bb-config pciutils 

Author: I will only add the reference to the installation of these packages ok?

> zypper in dpdk dpdk-tools pf-bb-config pciutils 

Reviewer 2: We need to document the entire process end-to-end. Everything a reader needs to do to reproduce our results. Absolutely everything.

exit
```

4. CPU Performance

Further improve the deterministic and power efficiency:

`cpupower frequency-set -g performance`

Set cpu core frequency to 2.6Ghz which is the maximum allowed in our case (based on the hardware):

`cpupower frequency-set -u 2500000`

`cpupower frequency-set -d 2500000`

Set cpu uncore to fixed – maximum allowed. Disable c6 and c1e in order to disable the powersaving features in your system (only if enabled):

> `cpupower idle-set -d 3`

Author: that's normal. no worries

> `cpupower idle-set -d 3`

Author: I will add a note

> `cpupower idle-set -d 2`

Author: same answer

kube-system       rke2-snapshot-controller-7b5b4f946c-rhtxn               1/1     Running     0          2m32s
kube-system       rke2-snapshot-validation-webhook-7748dbf6ff-cfmpm       1/1     Running     0          2m1s
tigera-operator   tigera-operator-7bd6b54cb8-2jm92                        1/1     Running     0          3m23s
```

### ACC100 Configuration

The ACC100 accelerator card is a PCIe card that provides hardware acceleration for the Forward Error Correction (FEC) algorithm. This card is used by the FlexRan library to improve the performance of the DU/CU components.

1. Load the `igb_uio` kernel module

> During the OS configuration section we have installed the `igb` driver, `dpdk` as well as the `pf-bb-config tool [requirements](./2023-07-28-flexran.md#os-configuration-and-tunning)

We will start configuring the Accelerator Card by loading the `ibg_uio` and the `vfio-pci module.

```
modprobe igb_uio
modprobe vfio-pci
```

2. Get the interface ACC100 PCI address:

```
/sbin/lspci | grep -i acc
8a:00.0 Processing accelerators: Intel Corporation Device 0d5c
```

3. Bind the Physical Function (PF) with the `igb_uio` driver:

> dpdk-devbind.py -b igb_uio 0000:8a:00.0`

Author: good catch

| Set Fan Profile                                |Performance | This option allows the fan profile to be set to Performance, Balanced, or Quiet.|
| Cooling Configuration - Fan Speed Offset       | Medium| This option allows the fan speed offset to be set to Low, Medium, or High.|

### OS Installation

For this example, we will assume the SLE Micro RT 5.4 operating system has been already installed on the baremetal host used to deploy the edge clusters. To verify the `Real Time Kernel` version used, you can use the following command (pay attention to the `-rt` suffix):

```shell
uname -r
5.14.21-150400.15.11-rt
```

>If you want to download the SLE Micro RT 5.4 ISO, you can use the following link paying special attention to the `-RT` in the image name, once you've logged in with your SUSE credentials: [Download SLE Micro RT from Suse Customer Center](https://www.suse.com/download/sle-micro/)

> For more information about how to install the operating system SLE Micro RT, see the next [link](https://suse-edge.github.io/docs/product/atip/management-cluster#os-install)

> ### OS Configuration and Tunning

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### OS Configuration and Tuning
```

Author: thanks!

        --set hostname=<hostname> \
        --set bootstrapPassword=<bootstrapPassword> \
        --set replicas=1 \
        --set global.cattle.psp.enabled=false
```

4. Verify the Rancher installation

You should wait a few minutes for Rancher to be rolled out:

`kubectl -n cattle-system rollout status deploy/rancher`

## Edge Cluster deployment

This section covers the bare-metal provisioning and installation of the edge cluster nodes in order to deploy the FlexRan tests. In our case, we will deploy two edge clusters, one for the FlexRan Timer Mode tests and another one for the FlexRan Xran Mode tests.
The configuration of the edge cluster nodes is based on the following components, and it will be the same for the two edge clusters:

![img.png](2023-07-29-flexran-images/edge.png)

### BIOS Configuration for Dell PowerEdge XR11

The BIOS and NIC configuration used for this article based on the [hardware](./2023-07-28-flexran.md#hardware) shown above, could be imported directly using the [Dell PowerEdge XR11 BIOS Exported Configuration File](2023-07-29-flexran-images/system-config.xml).
In order to import the configuration file, you need to do it using the idrac web interface:

> ![img.png](2023-07-29-flexran-images/import-bios.png)

Reviewer 2: Please switch your browser to English and re-do the screenshot.
